
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="ubuntu_screen_brightness_function_key_not_working">UBUNTU SCREEN BRIGHTNESS FUNCTION KEY NOT WORKING:</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
How to fix brightness function key not working in Ubuntu 14.04.
</p>

<p>
This article was originally written for Ubuntu 13.10 but it is equally able to fix brightness issue in Ubuntu 14.04 as well as Linux Mint 17.
On my Dell Inspiron, using the function key to change the brightness did not yield any results. Brightness was at the maximum and my attempts to lower it went in vain.
</p>

<p>
It turns out, there are two bugs related to brightness issue in Ubuntu. One relates to Nvidia graphics card and other relates to Intel graphics card. The solution, that worked for me, is for Intel one. Let’s first find out what graphics/video card to do you have.
</p>

<p>
Find video/graphics card in Ubuntu and Linux Mint
</p>

<p>
Run the command below in terminal to know what video card is used for the backlight/brightness:
</p>

<p>
<strong>ls /sys/class/backlight/</strong>
find graphics driver in Ubuntu
</p>

<p>
As you can see, the output for me is dell_backlight and intel_backlight. An indicator that the graphics card in use is Intel. Another way to find out the graphics card would be to go in <strong>System Settings→Details→Graphics</strong>. You can see the graphic card in use.
</p>

<p>
If your graphics card is Intel, you can proceed with the fix below.
</p>

<p>
Fix brightness control issue with Intel card in Ubuntu 14.04 and Linux Mint 17:
</p>

<p>
Open a terminal and create the following configuration file, if it does not exist:
</p>
<pre class="code">sudo touch /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/20-intel.conf</pre>

<p>
Now we need to edit this file. You can use any editor be it a terminal one or graphical.
</p>
<pre class="code">sudo gedit /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/20-intel.conf</pre>

<p>
Add the following lines to this file:
</p>
<pre class="code">Section &quot;Device&quot;
      Identifier  &quot;card0&quot;
      Driver      &quot;intel&quot;
      Option      &quot;Backlight&quot;  &quot;intel_backlight&quot;
      BusID       &quot;PCI:0:2:0&quot;
EndSection</pre>

<p>
Save it. Log out and log in back. The brightness control should be working through function keys now:
</p>

</div>
